WIP    (work in progress)
WIP    On an excellent prompt by my professor today I gather that the states of consciousness could be along these lines:
WIP    
WIP    Infant.
WIP    	Infants and foetuses could have different mental states altogether, albeit their qualia might be vaguely similar or compatible to some extent.
WIP    
WIP    Sleeping.
WIP    	REM sleep.
WIP    	Lucid dreaming.
WIP    	Deep sleep.
WIP    
WIP    Awaken. Able to pass into sleep, concentrated states or other states.
WIP    	Just awake, free floating attention.
WIP    
WIP    Trance. Modifying the brain mechanics, slowing down some parts of the brain exercising some differently. Either trained, via conditioning or otherwise.
WIP    	Concentrated on many things.
WIP    	Perfectly concentrated to one thing.
WIP    	Perfectly concentrated to nothing.
WIP    
WIP    Tired.
WIP    	Really tired and day dreaming, driving for days on end, coming in and out of conscience - extended period leads to death.
WIP    	Intoxicated via either substances(internal or external) or toxins or disease.
WIP    
WIP    Special states. (CDC reports cca 214,110 TBI-related hospitalizations in 2020* and 69,473 TBI-related deaths in 2021)
WIP    	Traumatized
WIP    	Catastrophic (such as during severe accidents that interfere and distort functionality in parts of the brain's activity)
WIP    	Dying (such as the head few seconds after beheaded, say during french revolutions)
WIP    
WIP    
WIP    Brainstorming solo I thought about the states past the death triggering event: 
WIP    there could be a realistic situation in which insurance and inheritance of great monetary value can hinge on question like which of 
WIP    these (maybe tens of) passengers died first, given CCTV records, maybe recording of their vitals 
WIP    (say they would have been great military pilots, maybe treason, maybe posthumous medals). 
WIP    The order in which people die in common accidents could influence vast inheritances, fortunes could be distributed based on seconds of CCTV footage.
WIP    Say there was an air collision, maybe, potentially they were all really dead within seconds.
WIP    Experts to analyze the most probable order in which this happened given these CCTV, vitals recordings, audio, description.
WIP    Did the pilot's fingers squeezed the triggers of his aircraft's main weapon when the pilot was actually dead?
WIP    What could have been his intentions?
WIP    
WIP    Or - there could be an "almost" self-defense situation in which, the would be armed victim notices the armed perpetrator shot dead.
WIP    Supposed various outcomes come about, what would be the appropriate course of action, who-shoots-whom, what is what and what is safe.
WIP    Is a just-shot-dead assailant trustworthy not to act randomly?
WIP    
WIP    Another interesting state of consciousness is the state of consciousness in early ages and before birth.
WIP    We do know that foetuses can remember tunes they hear when they are still in their mother's womb.
WIP    Supposed the children Ci would assist traumatic events such as abortion of their peers or failed abortion attempts on themselves.
WIP    This would create an opportunity to inquire Ci throughout their ontogeny and see what comes up for different i.