A life changing experience:

When I left Romania to live in the UK, I was able to do escape enough of the Romanian noise (there is a measurable social noise
in the Romanian culture, which is very difficult to escape)

In England I could concentrate on what I actually wanted.
It felt like a new birth. After just two years in the England I considered myself completely cured of a problem I never knew I had.

My behaviors changed, in many ways such as as I can now shift between being introvert and extrovert.
I learned to say the full NO.
I feel completely in control now.

I recommend going to another countries and live there - the extra perspective gained is worth the toll.

Up to a glass ceiling, in the UK I was allowed to do anything I wanted - whereas in Romania, the social pressure is such that it 
discourages anything proportionally to the deviations from the social norms. (ie. someone wearing a face mask on the street during
COVID could be attacked on the street because the social norms are to ignore the face mask legislation, or someone sticking to the
legal speed limit of 50kmph would usually be harassed by most road users that go by the social norms at 10kmph above the speed 
limit, or someone that has too many books in the house might be sued by their neighbors because the weight of the books might 
impact the building resistance)

Of course awkward stuff like this happen in any country, such as people attacked for wearing COVID masks, but these facts are 
outliers, making it the difference.

I could live again my childhood on my own terms.

I could grow into my own self and learn to fulfill my potential.

Much later on, when I came back to Romania, I truly was a different person, knowing what are my own limitations and what were 
my limitations caused by the social noise and what were my problems before leaving.

I guess societies are always perfectly fair, English, Romanian, German. What some people don't realize is the deal they get.
My bet is that when  people get more perspective, they gain enormously. 

Once one has this perspective, it is so much easier to adapt to best fit its purpose.
