The Amygdala Unpacked with Dr. Joseph LeDoux - Replay (217)
https://podcasts.apple.com/ie/podcast/the-amygdala-unpacked-with-dr-joseph-ledoux-replay-217/id1146941306?i=1000632398963
Therapist Uncensored Podcast
Social Sciences

Therapist Uncensored Podcast
Sue Marriott LCSW, CGP & Ann Kelley PhD

[..]
Let me see if I can say back some of this. Basically, the amygdala calling it the fear center is a mistake. That is, it's a mistake. And it's a mistake. And it's a mistake. And it's a threat detection system that operates on the non-conscious level. So by the time that it read
something registers as fear, you're talking about a new system, a different system now. That's basically it. But I mean, the key point is, you've got one stimulus out there,
snake at your feet, right? That stimulus is going to activate different systems in the brain. Not just the two I'm talking about. Well, one will be, you know, the amygdala system that generates
the freezing response, so you don't step on the snake and the heart rate responses to go with that. And the second system that's cognitive and is interpreting what's going on in that situation
in your body. And you so generate a narrative based on an emotion schema.
[...]

We've spoken with Steve Porges, story follows state and the polyvagal theory. So this is very
consistent. So people have asked us, what does that mean? Story follows state. And this is what it is, is that you have this experience, but there's then a conscious story that gets layered on top to make it make sense. Already, we've talked about the amygdala system, and we've talked about
the difference between threat and fear, that those are two different things. I was listening to something that you were talking about earlier about the freeze response and rats and how that
there's some rats that never learn and they end up staying frozen. And you had made a reference to the psychopathology in humans. And there are some people due to trauma and unresolved, you know,
experiences in their history that kind of live in that freeze reaction. I mean, this is really diving to the heart of matter of like, how can we, use your research? Like, are there things to speak to? And I know that, you know, you're not
talking about rats having feelings, and it's not a direct correlation. But intuitively, what's your sense of that, of how we can best help people that have those kinds of severe trauma?
You know, sometimes it's hard to get from the compelling finding to the, you know, magic bullet
that's going to solve the problem. But maybe just understanding how some of the basic stuff works is useful to patients, because it helps.
And I think that's the key to understanding what's going on. So for example, if we take rats and condition, I don't know, let's say 10 of them, you're going to get a bell curve. It's not like
they all have the same amount of freezing, they will all freeze some, but it's going to be a bell curve. And that bell curve reflects individual differences, just like in people, we're all
different, react to different things, something that, you know, drives me crazy, other people love. One way to think about the brain
is that every cell in the brain can be thought of as having its own bell curve. So who you are is
like the kind of giant summation of all those bell curves that have been shaped each one separately by
genes and experience, because it's not just experience and everything in the brain, the brain is, is an environment for all those cells. And the environment out there is an environment for the
brain. So it's all kind of connected down to the wiring of what goes on at a very micro level that determines who we are. So all those bell
curves, let's just take the the amygdala, it's like, you know, we got a million bell curves, or however many cells it has, they're all bell curves. And it's not the whole amygdala that's
involved in all this, it's only some small parts of it. And what we found was that, so if we condition all these animals, such that they learn how to avoid danger, that was what the study was about.
And we found that there are a few things that are important, you know, so in the clinical world, avoidance is a bad thing. Right? So that's certainly true. And what we were looking at is the fact that when we look at the avoidance behavior, which is also individually
different in each each rat, what determined whether the rat was going to avoid or not, was how
much they froze. If you're freezing, you can't take action. We think of avoidance in the way we study it
as, you know, kind of a proactive avoidance, a kind of useful avoidance where the animal or
person learns to do something to help them cope with the danger, as opposed to more of a passive avoidance where, you know, if you, say, have panic attacks if you go outside, so you stay home all
the time, you're passively avoiding. But if you can actively engage somehow and have mastery over
the situation, more of a positive, you know, active coping kind of thing, you can't do the positive thing. You can't avoid if you're frozen. So you can't have active avoidance if you have
passive avoidance, basically. So what we found was that in one part of the amygdala, if we
damaged that part of the amygdala, we expected the animals, well, now they could then learn to avoid because they would stop freezing. And yes, they stopped freezing.
But we didn't even have to teach them how to avoid. They had already learned it, but they couldn't get it out because they were so frozen. And I think that is so true of a lot of people,
psychologically frozen and can't do anything positive because they're so psychologically frozen. So the right word, you know, has some at least metaphoric value. And I think we even
learned that if we put, for example, propranolol into this part of the brain, that would make the animal, you know, more productive. And I think that's a really good point.
Stop freezing and start avoiding effectively. Propranolol is proposed to be a useful thing
to help you with some aspects of anxiety. But I think the, you know, the exciting studies at the beginning haven't all been confirmed. So it's not as strong a case as it once was. But I think
there's still some evidence that, you know, a dose of propranolol can help you with stage fright and things like that. It's just not quite as powerful as we'd want.
Yeah, it's too bad that when there's a natural disaster that we can't like run in and, you know, so in the therapy world, you know, we talk about the unconscious.
And what's the relationship between the non-conscious and the unconscious? The unconscious, of course, has very strong associations with Freud and the whole repression
of anxious thoughts and so forth. So I'm not like denying or dismissing that in any way. What I'm just saying is that, you know, I think that's a really good point.