**the setup for the roommate:
I was a grown man when, before COV-19 madness, landed in Berlin with my new job and booked Hotel Panorama in Adenauer Platz, Berlin.
My idea was to stay in the hotel for a few days and rent something later. The first few days of work got me very tired so I procrastinated.
I was also looking on AirBnB and generic rental sites (later on I found out about specific sites) and the search got me exhausted every time.
One day I just picked the cheapest and hoped for the best. Berlin never disappoints though, so the cheapest thing was in Kreuzberg with a roommate.
Before this, I lived in shared accommodations  with strangers more than 5 times, both with single roommates and with up to four people.
I also lived with family and friends in tens of places - I have never yelled at anyone unless - say - my brother would make a good scaring prank.
It was for one month, booked and paid ahead and I just got there with my bags on day one. Never before have I booked anything via AirBnB.
This roommate was unlike anything I ever seen, but - at the cognitive level I decided it was OK, he's either not gonna kill me or I won't feel it.
He was speaking good English, German and Spanish and we communicated good, but he was rather shy and quiet, moving silently.
The place was nice and with large rooms, my room, (never seen this guy's room,) it was nicely furnished and comfortable, kitchen, bathroom all OK.
I only crashed there at nights, working long hours and 1h+ subway commute. Usually I would also go shopping at Rewe or elsewhere for about 1 hour.
It was the crack of dawn when I left to work and night when I got back. I never felt threatened in Kreuzberg, at any hour, in any place I have been.
Everywhere I went to during the week days it was night, or late at night, I saw daylight outside only during weekends.

**The chase of the roommate:
So this roommate was usually not in, which is great as I do better alone. After a week I did see him during the weekend or so.
He came in softly in the kitchen frame and as I sensed it, I turned and yelled. I then said I am sorry, that he startled me.
Later encounters, it would happen the same and we would meet. More than 50% of times I would yell within the first second of noticing him.
I was never upset on this roommate and never desired this roommate not to be in or to be out.
At cognitive level this was indifferent to me, so I began thinking: why do I yell?
Every time I would apologize or, apologize and burst laughing. I told him to make some noise because he startles me.
We would be speaking on weekends and I think we spoke for more than 10 hours during that month. I told him about my grandfather but not the snake story.
Still this would happen. I did tell him that he startles me, that he did not make enough noise, but was an excuse. He was making noise, and he said so.
But on one occasion I started saying hello and still I yelled at him after the hello.
He said that maybe I should be looking for something else to rent, but by that time I already had rented something double the price, in Charlottenburg.

**Epilogue of the roommate story:
As I rented the doubly priced Charlottenburg room, 7 minutes away from my workplace, again, with a roommate (different this time).
Speaks (I kid you not: German, English and Spanish). Told me that Kreuzberg is "unsafe" for walking, day and especially nights. Really?
I lived together with this other roommate for several months and never made a peep noticing him, just hello.
Later on I came back for some letters that were delivered to the old Kreuzberg address. 
This time there was also the other person living with him, a Muslim-clad lady about 35 that left out to rent me the room for the month prior.
I asked where is my former roommate. He was rather shy to come out but I insisted. He came, we shook hands, I acted friendlier than my usual self.
But most importantly, when I did see him, I did not yell.
